{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15940\viewh11960\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
I was born on January 6, 1969 -\
The Feast of the Epiphany - \
in the United States.  \
\
I was born in a hospital in Albany, New York.  \
My father was studying at Downstate Medical College.  \
There is a recording of the elements \
\
of a service at the Thomaskirche, \
Bach's church in Leipzig, on The Feast of the Epiphany, \
January 6, circa 1740.  Walking with Sandeep along\
\
Amersterdam Avenue in March, 2008,\
I wonder if I will see snow again.  In A Portrait of the Artist \
as a Young Man, published 1916, each episode \
\
centers around or culminates in an epiphany\'d1 \
a moment of euphoric insight and understanding \
that significantly contributes to Stephen Dedalus's 
\f1\i bildung
\f0\i0 . \
\
My father left me a copy of this book \
on his death, when I was five. \
It is a key example of the 
\f1\i K\'9fnstlerroman
\f0\i0 .  \
\
My mother, Susan Jane Tankoos, was born \
on May 30, 1943, in the United States,\
on Fisher's Island, off the New York coast.  \
\
My grandfather, Harry Tankoos, Jr., was stationed there\
while attending adjutant general's training\
and before being stationed in the Phillipines\
\
where he did not see significant action.  His one\
repeated memory is having bought a black Sargeant lunch\
and the heat.  (They are the same memory.) \
\
My mother grew up in Queens, one of the five boroughs of New York City, \
in a house, in Hollis, the place from which Run-DMC would later come, and through\
which one can now drive when avoiding traffic to Kennedy.  \
\
She attended Andrew Jackson High School, and Pennslyvania State University, \
where my great-grandfather, Alfred Schein, had obtained an engineering degree.  \
He was one of the main engineers of the 8th Avenue Subway, \
\
the IND, which I now ride home to Red Hook.\
My father, Richard Leonard Scharf, was born at 913 East 27th Street, \
between Avunues I and J, in Brooklyn, on July 17, 1942.  \
\
He lived in Springfield, Illinois, for a year at the age of three, \
and grew up in Laurelton, Queens.  My grandfather, \
my mother's father, was born Lauraine Tankoos\
\
On May 15, 1915, at 155 Newton Street in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.  \
The family's dry goods store was at 147 Driggs Avenue between Humboldt & Russell Streets.  \
There is a portrait of him, kept by my grandmother, in his Little Lord Fauntleroy garb.  \
\
In 1935, having legally changed his name to Harry Tankoos, Jr., \
he traveled by steamship through the Panama Canal with his mother, \
whose name was Irene.  He attended NYU, majoring in English, \
\
I think, and went into advertising.  He worked for 21 years as the in-house\
ad-man for the Mirkin Paint Company.  In the late 1960s, he owned an offsetting plant on Spring Street.  \
He evetually ran Tankoos & Ventre advertising out the basement of his home in Great Neck, \
\
Long Island, where my parents moved\
after my father was diagnosed with Hodgin's Lymphoma, in July of 1969.\
My nickname for Ivan Kreilkamp is Cardigan Fey.  My nickname for me with him is Garb Fey.\
\
\
\
     \
\
 }