{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Helvetica;}{\f157\fswiss\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica-Oblique{\*\falt Times};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Helvetica;}{\f157\fswiss\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica-Oblique{\*\falt Times};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title I was born on January 6, 1969}{\author Michael Scharf}{\operator Michael Scharf}{\creatim\yr2009\mo1\dy13\hr17\min34}{\revtim\yr2009\mo1\dy13\hr17\min59}{\version5}{\edmins27}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords355}{\nofchars2026}{\nofcharsws2488}{\vern16521}}\margl1440\margr1440 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale125\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\lang1033\cgrid {\par I was born on January 6, 1969,\par The Feast of the Epiphany, in a hospital in Albany, New York\par }{in the United States}{.}{ }{  \par \par My father was studying at Downstate Medical College.\par There is a recording of us.\par I also have a recording of the elements of a service at the Thomaskirche, \par \par Bach's church in Leipzig, on The Feast of the Epiphany, \par January 6, circa 1740.  Walking along Amersterdam Avenue \par in March, 2008, I wonder if I will ever see snow again.  It fogs Sandeep\rquote s glasses.\par \par In }{\i A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man}{, \par published 1916, each episode \par centers around or culminates in an epiphany\emdash  \par \par a moment of euphoric insight and understanding \par that significantly contributes to Stephen Dedalus's }{\i bildung}{. \par It is a key example of the }{\i k\u252\'9fnstlerroman}{.  \par \par My father, Richard Leonard Scharf, was born at 913 East 27th Street, \par between Avunues I and J, in Brooklyn, on July 17, 1942.  He lived \par in Springfield, Illinois, for a year at the age of three, and grew up in Laurelton, Queens.  \par \par My grandfather, my mother's father, was born Lauraine Tankoos\par On May 15, 1915, at 155 Newton Street in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.  The family's \par dry goods store was at 147 Driggs Avenue between Humboldt & Russell Streets.  \par \par In 1935, having legally changed his name to Harry Tankoos, Jr., he traveled, an only child, by steamship through the Panama Canal with his mother, whose name was Irene.  \par }\pard \ri-720\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0 {He attended NYU, majored in English, and went into advertising.  For 21 years, he worked \par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\par as the in-house ad-man for the Mirkin Paint Company.  In the late 1960s, \par he owned an offset plant on Spring Street, aka Printers Row. He evetually \par ran a small advertising business out of the basement of his home in Great Neck.\par \par My mother, Susan Jane Tankoos, was born on May 30, 1943, in the United States,\par on Fisher's Island, off the New York coast.  Harry Tankoos, Jr., was stationed there\par while attending adjutant general's training and before being stationed in the Phillipines.\par \par My mother grew up in Hollis, Queens. She attended Andrew Jackson High School, \par and Pennslyvania State University, where her maternal grandfather, Alfred Schein, obtained an engineering degree.  He was one of the main engineers \par of the 8th Avenue Subway, the IND, which I now ride home to Red Hook.\par My grandfather, Nathan Scharf, was born on _____, 1905, in Oswicem, Austria-Hungary, and emigrated to East New York, where his father was a garment press \par \par operator.  He got three-fourths of a rabbinic education, and then went to City College.\par My grandmother, Mildred Freiman Scharf, was born on June 10, 1915, in Mazir, Russia,\par and emigrated to Alphabet Brooklyn.  She entered Hunter College at 15, \par \par intending to major in Chemstry, but was told that as a woman (read: Jew?) \par she could not have a career in science, and majored in French.  \par She and my grandfather taught in the New York City Public Schools.\par \par }{\par }}