{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff4\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title The Cat}{\author Michael Scharf}{\operator Michael Scharf}{\creatim\yr2009\mo10\dy16\hr13\min46}{\revtim\yr2009\mo10\dy16\hr16\min44}{\version4}{\edmins31}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords1573}{\nofchars8969}{\nofcharsws11014}{\vern16521}}\margl1440\margr1440 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale200\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\lang1033\cgrid {\par \par \par The Cat\par \par The cat is Kyntiak, dainty.  Thin like }{\i chats shillongais}{\par thin through competition for resources \par which are domestic thin through sharing.\par \par The wooden verandah has a better name in Khasi\par I will have to ask someone who now is calling }{\i "Radha!"}{\par whose Khasi is good whose first language is Nepali\par \par whose Hindi is good.  Also Assamese and Garo.\par The cat is on the veranda the light is still morning light\par thin but full and not paining bright.  Kyntiak\par \par is intent on something and her muscles tighten her tail\par flicks like cat tails do and I think ok she's getting older\par she's not a kitten anymore and now does these real cat\par \par things.  The light is very clear like coffee orange vapor and Kyntiak\par intensifies and begins to open and close her jaws rapidly in a clatter\par like toy teeth except hers are needles on a wound spring \par \par in a trance, flashing her teeth, opening and closing her jaws very rapidly, \par like a kind of chatter, with a throaty "eck-eck-eck-eck" sound.  It frightes me \par and then I realize: she's imitating a kind of bird here nearly perfectly.  \par \par It must be a kind of lure.  She's a very small cat, but that doesn't stop\par her from chasing the chickens (there are 20) around the yard when\par they're let out in the afternoon.\par \par The K-Properties of Dr. Prasad the lines of which are getting longer\par and for which I may have finally found a form after about a year and a half\par of getting nowhere here in Shillong writing it here in Shillong\par \par What was The Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot in I think couplets and these run-togethers\par remind me of Matthea's Pity the Bathtub Its Forced Embrace of the Human Form\par a book that haunts me in its intimate gossamers but gossamers\par \par require cossetting if they are to survive.  I've delayed too long what Kyntiak did\par and will have to go back and fix it sometime but right now I should follow this out.\par The sun is setting and several times today I have had perceptions as I did when\par \par as a child the kind of unfiltered perceptions that travel is supposed to bring on\par and now I have to close the windows since it's after 5 and its already two hours\par since the mosquitos have been born I got up to do it it's getting dark but Mei\par \par had already done it Radha wants to come with us back to the States they say\par America or I try to say New York and now papa is calling to the chickens \par \par who recognize him and call out when he walks by if they haven't seen him \par for a few hours they see me now as 'heaven-sent' I feel bad quoting Mei\par but her acceptance means a great deal to me I see something systemic in people\par \par and also in nature where encroachments and distortions are everywhere evidenced\par Radha called papa mama which is Hindi for uncle.  We will go to Delhi in two\par weeks when Lauretta finishes work her last day is Halloween which they don't\par \par celebrate here but I think that that is right about the time of Diwali.  I went to a pandel\par for Durga Puja with Radha she has a last name it's Thapa you must train yourself\par to treat h as a consonant that clusters differently with both voiced and voiceless\par \par plosives not melded what two character but single sound orthography as in th\par as in thy.  Lamonte's wedding was yesterday and maybe that's why I'm finally writing\par after our wedding two weeks and two days ago September 30th in church\par \par and October 1st in the marriage registration officer's office I shri Michael Scharf\par take you to take you shrini or something Lauretta Lakrykhumai Syiem we did that\par and kong Sunita and kong Anita Lakador's wife were witnesses along with papa.\par \par Papa drove me to my tetanus shot today at the Pasteur institute they have a blood\par bank Lauretta works at the Meghalaya AIDS Control Society MACS which is funded\par by the national NACO National AIDS Control Organization sounds like pesticide\par \par pesticidal pesticidal society.  DDT society.   The light is white pink through the back\par trees of alma moor which I image as pines and larches and pears and they can be\par but probably aren't I can ask papa who is talking to Bahba which is a kinship term\par \par it isn't his name but in Khasi kinship terms are more familiar than names which can be\par either distancing or diminuitizing or maybe just disrespectful it's too dark I will have tea. \par Lauretta came home and the water is boiling Suresh is on the phone I don't think\par \par with Lamonte I went with Bahba with Lyndan to return the big what daiburs what\par are they called the big aluminum cooking vessels the big ones are just called big\par ones in Hindi, }{\i bhardawallas}{, and I forget what they are in Khasi too I can't remember vocabularly\par \par like a child but at moments I have flashes of perception as then as when sitting\par and looking from the waiting room of the pasteur institute brown granite floor \par a smell dettol stronger than dettol anticeptic toxic not the smell but the trees beyond\par \par the clay dirt car path also pine or larch the japanese wood block pine the Ozu\par pine I wanted to say to Lyndan that the houses with their pitches roofs rooves\par look much more asian 'asian' than Indian but it's really the Kashmir-Nepal-Northeast\par \par belt that looks like this I think it's the climate that allows it and the tin rooves in the rain\par it was just raining and papa told when we had canna in the afternoon about measuring\par land with Lamonte and also with Lakador and how they wanted to measure right up\par \par to the drain and how he demanded that they measure four feet from the drain and they\par wouldn't they measured two feet from the drain but it was sufficient and that papa who\par worked for the department of taxes had calculated the cost after they had measured\par \par and had multiplied 130 Rs. per square foot by 150 by something I can't remember and it\par had come to seven lakhs and something but the measuring man who has a name in Hindi\par had asserted his authority and said are you accusing me of making a mistake it's eight lakhs\par \par so tik he as Lakador says 'tikhe' and as papa says they were all happy.  India is beautiful papa\par says I think in America you don't see very many ladies in saris and there is no more native\par dress anywhere I think he says even in South America it is all gone in Mexico all gone.  Only\par \par India is beautiful.  The sun was setting over Polo then Polo every city has to have its garbage\par dump Polo leaving me alone now I think she understands I'm working for when\par the first time in when I hear her she's having one of her exchanges with Radha competitive\par \par assertive also tender.  Suresh is there and Bahlung Bahlung Lamonte would cry in a shout\par Lung and he came and he memorizes Lamonte's songs and loves them.  Your tea is ready\par we play at roles.  Too much labor and it's not an entertainment anymore it's not a puzzle\par \par and it's delight and destruct mostly and no one is delighted called from Delhi\par where you can actually buy things and asked me to measure my fingers for gloves\par \par but I couldn't find a ruler in the house and she couldn't direct me and I couldn't get across\par to Radha what I wanted and anyway she was in the middle of serving lunch to herself\par and Bahbah and I didn't want to press.  \par \par The disavowal of agency in religious writing (appeal to the father) similar to that in political \par analysis (appeal to systematicity).  The blue scrap in which that had been written sitting\par on the bottom of four shelves built in behind the bed in the cottage, looking out on the construction\par \par in the field next door, of another giant concrete abode.  There will need to be a well,\par and a trench for waste.   I was surprised by the degree\par of his anger about the situation, a kind of indignation\par that a state founded on principles could go so far into\par \par blatant oppression and organized death with disavowals at every turn.  I say it surprised me\par and it also made me angry that I had to walk another person down this garden path. \par The horse raced past the barn fell.\par \par You have to picture the a minority I said.  I know you're saturated here\par and it's tiresome but you really have to remember that there are only 13 or 14 million.  A minority like any other.  Minorities aren't supposed to act this way, unless they're not in power.  \par \par If they're not in power they can blow things up and it's revolutionary. A nuclear minority.  \par Like Pakistan.  Romulus and Remus.  So you have to, I'm asking, imagine this minority \par before, a kind of ghettoized assimilation, a separate but equal making possible\par \par the "identity revision" paved over utopia clearview.  My mother in high school: forms for minority scholarships handed out: will you be needing one? Not white until after WWII.  WWII, A race war.  A religious war. Die Krups and GM.  All of the traditional diasporic spaces close down.\par A non-white minority tortured, staved, beaten, killed.   Here is where people turn off.  Armenians.  For the Kurds, especially, since they've militarized.  militant as \par \par spaces get squeezed and it feels like go do it or your family will be killed.  A very personal thing.  One third of the world population murdered.  \par Leaves little regard for law or the state as run by majorities.  Unclear \par \par how this is different from other minority wars for land utilizing colonial methods, as in the way the U.S. was formed and built: murder of indigenous people, and slavery.   Double-standard.  Otherwise, right of return = payments in U.S. for slavery.\par \par The strongest argument I've heard is that the amount of U.S. tax money spent there makes it justified, since what happens there is in some sense happening in the name of the U.S. citizenry.  But that doesn't, for me, explain the quickness and the level\par \par of rage that is directed at me when I take up a position within its Political Imaginary; I experience it, phenomenologically, the same way I experience Arab-French talk radio anti-Jewish tirades, or little clippings in The Teahouse News.  \par \par That feeling that Jews get, the grab your suitcase feeling: I get that a lot talking to people\par on the far left.  I will have to fix this so that the dramatic\par urgency of the imaginary is apparent.  It was effectively inculcated in me and it needs to be clear.  It's real.     \par \par The declaratives above won't work.  Take this out.  Remember the ineffectiveness of the Greenwald asides. Shostakovich's string quartet no. 7--the one with the repeated "dun-dun-dun" that's supposed to sound,  some say, like the chekha's rapping on the door in the middle of the \par \par night--sounds very good here in this wooden house in Meghalaya,"Meeg-HA-lay" in Hindi, whose notorious romanized orthography, \par \par with its botched epenthesis, corrupts the Khasi pronunciation and that of other non-Hindi English speakers\par Hindi being the cultural form of the religiously-specific Hindu, and this house seeming a dacha\par \par though in fact in the city limits, this city being something like ____, the Austrian opera city that Mozart\par comes from, what is it, ____.   [Salzburg]  The light is fading; the bed is made, waiting.  The red light atop the cheap\par speakers subwoofer.  Candy striper.    \par   \par \par  \par \par }}