{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12600\viewh11680\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
The Cat\
\
The cat is Kyntiak, dainty.  Thin young cat\
thin like a village through competition \
which is domestic thin through sharing.\
\
The wooden verandah has a better name in Khasi\
SI will have to ask as someone now is calling \
whose Khasi is good whose first language is Nepali\
\
whose Hindi is very good.  Also Assamese and Garo.\
The cat is on the veranda the light is still morning light\
thin but full and not paining bright.  Kyntiak\
\
is intent on something and her muscles tighten her tail\
flicks like cat tails do and I think ok she's getting older\
she's not a kitten anymore and now does these real cat\
\
things.  The light is very clear like perfect breakfast and Kyntiak\
intensifies and begins to open and close her jaws rapidly in a clatter\
like toy teeth except hers are needles on a wound spring I've written\
\
Neil about this moment sometimes I write Neal but in any case\
I mean Sandeep Dr. Prasada who has a cat that was Virginia's\
his wife Virginia Walsh's cat named Quito after the capital of Equador\
\
Virginia was a political scientist and there's something diminuitivizing\
and appropriationist about naming your cat after a place that people\
live no matter where your heart or humor is like when Amy Kantrowitz\
\
named her dog after Hazel Carby and couldn't see any ironies in it\
Virginia died I never knew her but Sandeep has told me the story\
of their marriage which I will put here as I can here in my poem\
\
The K-Properties of Dr. Prasad the lines of which are getting longer\
and for which I may have finally found a form after about a year and a half\
of getting nowhere here in Shillong writing it here in Shillong in India.\
\
What was The Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot in I think couplets and these run-togethers\
remind me of Matthea's Pity the Bathtub Its Forced Embrace of the Human Form\
a book that haunts me in its perfect so close and intimate gossamers but gossamers\
\
require cossetting if they are to survive.  I've delayed too long what Kyntiak did\
and will have to go back and fix it sometime but right now I should follow this out.\
The sun is setting and several times today I have had perceptions as I did when\
\
as a child the kind of unfiltered perceptions that travel is supposed to bring on\
but almost never does for me since I always see something systemic in people\
and now I have to close the windows since it's after 5 and its already two hours\
\
since the mosquitos have been born I got up to do it it's getting dark but Mei\
had already done it Radha wants to come with us back to the States they say\
America or I try to say New York and now papa is calling to the chickens \
\
who recognize him and call out when he walks by if they haven't seen him \
for a few hours they see me now as 'heaven-sent' I feel bad quoting Mei\
but her acceptance means a great deal to me I see something systemic in people\
\
and also in nature where encroachments and distortions are everywhere evidenced\
Radha called papa mama which is Hindi for uncle.  We will go to Delhi in two\
weeks when Lauretta finishes work her last day is Halloween which they don't\
\
celebrate here but I think that that is right about the time of Diwali.  I went to a pandel\
for Durga Puja with Radha she has a last name it's Thapa you must train yourself\
to treat h as a consonant that clusters differently with both voiced and voiceless\
\
plosives not melded what two character but single sound orthography as in th\
as in thy.  Lamonte's wedding was yesterday and maybe that's why I'm finally writing\
after our wedding two weeks and two days ago September 30th in church\
\
and October 1st in the marriage registration officer's office I shri Michael Scharf\
take you to take you shrini or something Lauretta Lakrykhumai Syiem we did that\
and kong Sunita and kong Anita Lakador's wife were witnesses along with papa.\
\
Papa drove me to my tetanus shot today at the Pasteur institute they have a blood\
bank Lauretta works at the Meghalaya AIDS Control Society MACS which is funded\
by the national NACO National AIDS Control Organization sounds like pesticide\
\
pesticidal pesticidal society.  DDT society.   The light is white pink through the back\
trees of alma moor which I image as pines and larches and pears and they can be\
but probably aren't I can ask papa who is talking to Bahba which is a kinship term\
\
it isn't his name but in Khasi kinship terms are more familiar than names which can be\
either distancing or diminuitizing or maybe just disrespectful it's too dark I will have tea. \
Lauretta came home and the water is boiling Suresh is on the phone I don't think\
\
with Lamonte I went with Bahba with Lyndan to return the big what daiburs what\
are they called the big aluminum cooking vessels the big ones are just called big\
ones in Hindi and I forget what they are in Khasi too I can't remember vocabularly\
\
like a child but at moments I have flashes of perception as then as when sitting\
and looking from the waiting room of the pasteur institute brown granite floor \
a smell dettol stronger than dettol anticeptic toxic not the smell but the trees beyond\
\
the clay dirt car path also pine or larch the japanese wood block pine the Ozu\
pine I wanted to say to Lyndan that the houses with their pitches roofs rooves\
look much more asian 'asian' than Indian but it's really the Kashmir-Nepal-Northeast\
\
belt that looks like this I think it's the climate that allows it and the tin rooves in the rain\
it was just raining and papa told when we had canna in the afternoon about measuring\
land with Lamonte and also with Lakador and how they wanted to measure right up\
\
to the drain and how he demanded that they measure four feet from the drain and they\
wouldn't they measured two feet from the drain but it was sufficient and that papa who\
worked for the department of taxes had calculated the cost after they had measured\
\
and had multiplied 130 Rs. per square foot by 150 by something I can't remember and it\
had come to seven lakhs and something but the measuring man who has a name in Hindi\
had asserted his authority and said are you accusing me of making a mistake it's eight lakhs\
\
so tik he as lakador says 'tikhe' and as papa says they were all happy.  India is beautiful papa\
says I think in America you don't see very many ladies in saris and there is no more native\
dress anywhere I think he says even in South America it is all gone in Mexico all gone.  Only\
\
India is beautiful.  The sun was setting over Polo then Polo every city has to have its garbage\
dump Polo Lauretta is leaving me alone now I think she understands I'm working for when\
the first time in when I hear her she's having one of her exchanges with Radha competitive\
\
assertive also tender.  Suresh is there and Bahlung Bahlung Lamonte would cry in a shout\
Lung and he came and he memorizes Lamonte's songs and loves them.  Mike your tea is ready\
Lauretta said we play at roles.  Worries this is a Steinian exercise or Joyce who wants\
\
to read this anymore too much labor and it's not an entertainment anymore it's not a puzzle\
and it's delight and destruct mostly and no one is delighted Lauretta called from Delhi\
where you can actually buy things and asked me to measure my fingers for gloves\
\
but I couldn't find a ruler in the house and she couldn't direct me and I couldn't get across\
to Radha what I wanted and anyway she was in the middle of serving lunch to herself\
and Bahbah and I didn't want to press.  Strangely of all Sandeep's girlfriends it's Kendra\
\
I imagine who will tolerate this elegy for Virginia best but I don't know what she herself\
Virginia might have thought though it was clearer after Sandeep and I\
drove up to what I can't remember the town in Connecticut one of the towns past \
\
New Canaan and not coastal but not too far up either on the Merritt it was a small house\
a fake suburban saltbox off what was a real rural road one of those houses cut into fields\
backed up onto forest slapped up by a developer with a redwood deck that dates it to the 60s.\
\
Her father had been a lawyer but they live frugally and the mother I think is a teacher and Veronica the sister is a hard sort and her husband too I imagine Virginia as more joyous in an almost\
spiteful way.  But maybe that's me.  Kendra's rejection hurt in I think it was an attack subconsciously\
\
since she used physical incompatibility in her breakup or rather non-persual email she\
could have said it's not a match and I would have understood but her phrasing contained\
a kind of disgust but it was the same I had seen in her already in other ways and I knew it\
\
wouldn't affect Sandeep even before we lurched forward since the machinery had started\
and even though I was thinking about Lauretta and mentioned her to Kendra more than once\
and did the same with Sandeep.  She was sensitive to it and immediately seized on it all\
\
and when we fought it out I felt that she really did want Sandeep and that confirmed\
my original thought Alissa called her cold and rejecting and but I knew she wouldn't\
be like that with him because it's just a reaction to demands being made on her\
\
that's just not something he does.  He's contained.  He talks a lot and makes up songs\
when he's happy or unhappy.   Husbands and Wives makes a lot more sense now I didn't\
understand that kind of trapped unhappiness when in my 20s or the kind of fear that propels\
\
Judy Davis and Liam Neeson or the ruthlessness that propels Mia Farrow even though\
Woody Allen lets his character off the easiest his loneliness at the end does feel earned real\
the moment where he heads back mistakenly toward the apartment he shared with Mia Farrow. \
\
The disavowal of agency in religious writing (appeal to the father) similar to that in political \
analysis (appeal to systematicity).  The blue scrap in which that had been written sitting\
on the bottom of four shelves built in behind the bed in the cottage, looking out on the construction\
\
in the field next door, of another giant concrete abode.  There will need to be a well,\
and a trench for waste.  I told Sandeep this poem will have a unique structure but I didn't\
tell him what it was: that the narrative would proceed on the right, with through-the-looking-glass\
\
facing page close-up illustrations on the left.  Recto and verso.  Like a children's book.  \
That will appeal to Dr. Prasad.  When we sat in the beer garden in Queens, I think it's Czech\
but it might be Polish, and ate sausage and drank those large-than-pint, I think litres of beer\
\
of possibly weiss beer, we finally argued in full about Israel, and I was surprised by the degree\
of his anger about the situation, which I had seen before in people on the left, a kind of indignation\
that a state founded on the principles on which it had been founded could go so far into\
\
blatant oppression and organized death with disavowals at every turn.  I say it surprised me\
and it also made me angry that I had to walk another person down this garden path which seemed\
so obvious to me.  I use garden path knowingly: the horse raced past the barn fell: that's a garden\
\
path sentence, in the sense that the syntax is obscured by the seeming semantics: you're\
garden-pathed into thinking that the verb is active when in fact it's passive.   And so I began\
my long and tiresome apology.  Sandeep because he is truly patient even though he was very angry\
\
let me speak.  You have to picture the Jews as a minority I said.  I know you're saturated here\
and it's tiresome but you really have to remember that there are only 13 or 14 million Jews in the world\
right now.  They're a minority like any other, a diasporic minority.  And this is the reason for the acrimony\
\
on the left since minorities aren't supposed to act this way, unless they're not in power.  If they're not in power\
they can blow things up at will and it's revolutionary.    I made this argument, part of it, to Lauretta\
at the Imperial Hotel in Delhi on our first date.  A nuclear minority.  Like Pakistan India's twin.\
\
Romulus and Remus suckle the same she-wolf.  So you have to, I'm asking, imagine this minority \
before WWI and WWII which I know is also annoying but because it relates to the imaginary of Israel \
I have to invoke it, so that before WWI, in what was the Ottoman Empire, it was lousy to be Jewish, mostly, \
\
though in Persia and Iraq the situation as I understand it from books like XXX was something \
like that of Germany, a kind of ghettoized assimilation, a separate but equal making possible\
the "identity revision" there as in my family as in Greenwald's.  Bayside, where we might downwardly go.  \
\
Paved over utopia clearview.   Miles sent it under cover of Tom Raworth.  He is perpetually.\
So there's this minority in the Ottoman Empire, and in Europe, and in Russia.  The Russians in 1905\
and 1917 go to the U.S. the then-Mexicans of the New York economy thought dark like them not white.\
\
Anecdote: my mother in high school: forms for minority scholarships handed out: will you be needing one?\
Jews not white until after WWII.  WWII, for the lumpen, a race war.  A religious war.  For the owners,\
pure profit all around, from Die Krups on down to GM.  Etc.  But my point is the Israeli founding imaginary.  \
\
In it, all of the traditional diasporic spaces close down within a period of 15 years, from 1917 to 1933.\
The Balfour Declaration comes in response to Hitler.  The Roosevelt administration is hostle to the mass\
emigration of Jews and does not allow waves as earlier, and the more middle classy German Jews \
\
reluctant to leave anyway.  A non-white minority tortured, staved, beaten, killed.  That is the pre-1945\
situation.  Here is where people turn off.  They turn off for the Armenians, too.  For the Kurds, especially,\
since they've militarized and fought back.  But the fact is that militant zionism takes off only once other\
\
spaces get squeezed and it feels like go do it or your family will be killed.  Everyone has stories.  Relatives.\
A very personal thing.  During the period 1933-1945, one third of the world Jewish population is legally murdered.  \
It leaves little regard for law or the state as run by majorities.  Unclear to me \
\
how this is different from other minority wars for land utilizing colonial methods, as in the way the U.S. \
was formed and built: murder of indigenous people, and slavery.   This point has no effect with Neil, or the left\
but what it points up to me is a double-standard, one that holds Israel and its citizenry more accountable\
\
than the democracies of post-colonial Africa and the dictatorships of the Arab world, both of which are propped up with U.S. money and the U.S. military's defense of the world's oil supply in a manner similar to that of Israel, \
which is number one [two?] on the U.S. aid list (followed by Egypt), an amount, at $2 billion a year [check], \
\
that's dwarfed by the amount spent by the U.S. military maintaining its bases in places like Qatar, \
which is the most liberal Arab dictatorship and sporsor of the excellent Doha Debates on BBC World News, \
but that kind of thing doesn't show up in the kinds of statistics cited by anyone.  I'm not defending Israel\
\
in the sense that I don't think what's happening there is good, and I wouldn't want copies of it proliferating.\
But I don't like the exceptionalism; I don't like the rage that Israel engenders in interlocutors.  That itself\
is the problem: it confuses me that what's happening in Israel makes people more angry than what's happening\
\
in Africa.  And no one has been able to properly explain to me why that is.  The strongest argument I've heard\
is that the amount of U.S. tax money spent there makes it justified, since what happens there is in some sense\
happening in the name of the U.S. citizenry.  That's legit.  But that doesn't, for me, explain the quickness and the level\
\
of rage that is directed at me when I take up a position within the Israeli Political Imaginary; I experience it,\
phenomenologically, the same way I experience Arab-French talk radio anti-Jewish tirades, or little clippings\
in The Teahouse News.  That feeling that Jews get, the grab your suitcase feeling: I get that a lot talking to people\
\
on the far left.  \
\
I will have to fix this so that the dramatic\
urgency of the imaginary is apparent.  It was effectively inculcated in me and it needs to be clear.  It's real.     \
\
The declaratives above won't work.  Take this out.  Remember the ineffectiveness of the Greenwald asides. \
Shostakovich's string quartet no. 7--the one with the repeated "dun-dun-dun" that's supposed to sound, \
\
some say, like the chekha's rapping on the door in the middle of the night--sounds very good here \
in this wooden house in Meghalaya,"Meeg-HA-lay" in Hindi, whose notorious romanized orthography, \
\
with its botched epenthesis, corrupts the Khasi pronunciation and that of other non-Hindi English speakers\
Hindi being the cultural form of the religiously-specific Hindu, and this house seeming a dacha\
\
though in fact in the city limits, this city being something like ____ [Salzburg], the Austrian opera city that Mozart\
comes from, what is it, ____ [Salzburg].   The light is fading; the bed is made, waiting.  The red light atop the cheap\
speakers subwoofer.  Candy striper.  Did they have one at Sloan Kettering, when Sandeep would drive\
\
Virginia in from Long Valley, or they must have already moved to ______ [ .     \
  \
\
 \
\
}