{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11160\viewh9380\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Untitled 5\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \
The cat material of untitled 5.  The caterer.   Cauterized.  Hot iron digested. \
By wound.  Your promise in dollars.  Divestiture was a popular strategy--- hanging, wound around your spindle.  The cat material.  Meaning, everyone has one.  \
This is not the shape I want to see, but I can't imagine the one I do.  In four.  Three.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \
The IATTC was the microcosm of the Collapse \
that Virginia chose.  I imagine she picked it \
\
because the documentation was both good and available,\
availability not the strong suit of corporate record keeping.  \
\
It was "nominally said to be exchanging information among its contracting parties" \
and now Virginia is really in the book.  She said it was expected \
\
to be a "neutral broker quietly urging fishing states to implement \
and enforce regulations."  It did do that, but Virginia found it to be \
\
"generating original research and using it to regulate the fishery."  \
So her thesis was: \
\
"If the IATTC used its formal treaty rules to guide the generation of new knowledge\
what would this tell us more generally  about institutions and knowledge?"\
\
About "specific treaty regimes" ("the very small") and\
"meta-regimes like sovereignty" \
\
and "property rights"  ("the very large")\
and then she keeps going\
\
"Possible to specify sovereignty in institutional terms?"\
"How would one specify change over time?"\
\
"How could 'knowledge' be captured as a concept\
(one subject to focused - i.e. topic-specific - comparative study)?"\
\
"What would it mean for the relationship between sovereignty and institutional terms\
to be causal?"  \
 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 How I Read Virginia's Book\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \
As a historical artefact - published in 2004, at a moment when the U.S. government\
was still denying the human role in climate change.\
\
As evidence for a set of particular human mechanisms contributing to the decline\
of tuna as a species, which stands in for environmental collapse generally.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Three Men\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \
There are three men staying in the basement rooms.  The krum.\
Accessed from the back.  I haven't seen them except once\
\
when pulling in with the car.  The scar by Lakador's right eye\
says "encounter," one of the things he wins respect by,\
\
enough to put three men in his mother's house, with his sister\
and the young single cook. \
\
  }