{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Helvetica;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Helvetica;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title The Cat}{\author Michael Scharf}{\operator Michael Scharf}{\creatim\yr2009\mo6\dy8\hr7\min47}{\revtim\yr2009\mo6\dy8\hr7\min53}{\version3}{\edmins7}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords2505}{\nofchars14282}{\nofcharsws17539}{\vern16521}}\margl1440\margr1440 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale125\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\lang1033\cgrid {\par \par \par The Cat\par \par Thin like Indian cats thin through competition \par for resources which are domestic thin through sharing\par The cat is Kyntiak, dainty. \par \par The wooden verandah has a better name in Khasi.\par If my vernacularization takes the forms of refusal and depends\par on the subject position of a legally conjugal other, what of it?\par \par I have to ask.  Someone now is calling Radha\par whose Khasi is good whose Nepali\par \par whose Hindi is good.  Also Assamese and Garo.\par The cat is on the veranda the light is still morning light\par thin but full and not paining bright.  Kyntiak\par \par is intent on something and her muscles tighten her tail\par flicks like cat tails do and I think ok she's getting older\par she's not a kitten anymore and now does these real cat\par \par things.  The light is very clear like perfect breakfast and Kyntiak\par intensifies and begins to open and close her jaws rapidly in a clatter\par like toy teeth except hers are like needles on a wound spindle I've written\par \par Neil about this moment sometimes I write Neal but in any case\par I mean Sandeep Dr. Prasada who has a cat that was Virginia's\par his wife Virginia Walsh's cat named Quito after the capital of Equador\par \par Virginia was a political scientist and there's something diminuitivizing\par and appropriationist about naming your cat after a place that people\par live no matter where your heart or humor is like when Amy Kantrowitz\par \par named her dog after Hazel Carby and couldn't see any ironies in it\par Virginia died I never knew her but Sandeep has told me the story\par of their marriage which I will put here as I can here in my poem\par \par The K-Properties of Dr. Prasad the lines of which are getting longer\par and for which I may have finally found a form after about a year and a half\par of getting nowhere here in Shillong writing it here in Shillong in India.\par \par What was The Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot in I think couplets and these run-togethers\par remind me of Matthea's Pity the Bathtub Its Forced Embrace of the Human Form\par a book that haunts me in its perfect so close and intimate gossamers but gossamers\par \par require cossetting if they are to survive.  I've delayed too long what Kyntiak did\par and will have to go back and fix it sometime but right now I should follow this out.\par The sun is setting and several times today I have had perceptions as I did when\par \par as a child the kind of unfiltered perceptions that travel is supposed to bring on\par but almost never does for me since I always see something systemic in people\par and now I have to close the windows since it's after 5 and its already two hours\par \par since the mosquitos have been born I got up to do it it's getting dark but Mei\par had already done it Radha wants to come with us back to the States they say\par America or I try to say New York and now papa is calling to the chickens \par \par who recognize him and call out when he walks by if they haven't seen him \par for a few hours they see me now as 'heaven-sent' I feel bad quoting Mei\par but her acceptance means a great deal to me I see something systemic in people\par \par and also in nature where encroachments and distortions are everywhere evidenced\par Radha called papa mama which is Hindi for uncle.  We will go to Delhi in two\par weeks when Lauretta finishes work her last day is Halloween which they don't\par \par celebrate here but I think that that is right about the time of Diwali.  I went to a pandel\par for Durga Puja with Radha she has a last name it's Thapa you must train yourself\par to treat h as a consonant that clusters differently with both voiced and voiceless\par \par plosives not melded what two character but single sound orthography as in th\par as in thy.  Lamonte's wedding was yesterday and maybe that's why I'm finally writing\par after our wedding two weeks and two days ago September 30th in church\par \par and October 1st in the marriage registration officer's office I shri Michael Scharf\par take you to take you shrini or something Lauretta Lakrykhumai Syiem we did that\par and kong Sunita and kong Anita Lakador's wife were witnesses along with papa.\par \par Papa drove me to my tetanus shot today at the Pasteur institute they have a blood\par bank Lauretta works at the Meghalaya AIDS Control Society MACS which is funded\par by the national NACO National AIDS Control Organization sounds like pesticide\par \par pesticidal pesticidal society.  DDT society.   The light is white pink through the back\par trees of alma moor which I image as pines and larches and pears and they can be\par but probably aren't I can ask papa who is talking to Bahba which is a kinship term\par \par it isn't his name but in Khasi kinship terms are more familiar than names which can be\par either distancing or diminuitizing or maybe just disrespectful it's too dark I will have tea. \par Lauretta came home and the water is boiling Suresh is on the phone I don't think\par \par with Lamonte I went with Bahba with Lyndan to return the big what daiburs what\par are they called the big aluminum cooking vessels the big ones are just called big\par ones in Hindi and I forget what they are in Khasi too I can't remember vocabularly\par \par like a child but at moments I have flashes of perception as then as when sitting\par and looking from the waiting room of the pasteur institute brown granite floor \par a smell dettol stronger than dettol anticeptic toxic not the smell but the trees beyond\par \par the clay dirt car path also pine or larch the japanese wood block pine the Ozu\par pine I wanted to say to Lyndan that the houses with their pitches roofs rooves\par look much more asian 'asian' than Indian but it's really the Kashmir-Nepal-Northeast\par \par belt that looks like this I think it's the climate that allows it and the tin rooves in the rain\par it was just raining and papa told when we had canna in the afternoon about measuring\par land with Lamonte and also with Lakador and how they wanted to measure right up\par \par to the drain and how he demanded that they measure four feet from the drain and they\par wouldn't they measured two feet from the drain but it was sufficient and that papa who\par worked for the department of taxes had calculated the cost after they had measured\par \par and had multiplied 130 Rs. per square foot by 150 by something I can't remember and it\par had come to seven lakhs and something but the measuring man who has a name in Hindi\par had asserted his authority and said are you accusing me of making a mistake it's eight lakhs\par \par so tik he as lakador says 'tikhe' and as papa says they were all happy.  India is beautiful papa\par says I think in America you don't see very many ladies in saris and there is no more native\par dress anywhere I think he says even in South America it is all gone in Mexico all gone.  Only\par \par India is beautiful.  The sun was setting over Polo then Polo every city has to have its garbage\par dump Polo Lauretta is leaving me alone now I think she understands I'm working for when\par the first time in when I hear her she's having one of her exchanges with Radha competitive\par \par assertive also tender.  Suresh is there and Bahlung Bahlung Lamonte would cry in a shout\par Lung and he came and he memorizes Lamonte's songs and loves them.  Mike your tea is ready\par Lauretta said we play at roles.  Worries this is a Steinian exercise or Joyce who wants\par \par to read this anymore too much labor and it's not an entertainment anymore it's not a puzzle\par and it's delight and destruct mostly and no one is delighted Lauretta called from Delhi\par where you can actually buy things and asked me to measure my fingers for gloves\par \par but I couldn't find a ruler in the house and she couldn't direct me and I couldn't get across\par to Radha what I wanted and anyway she was in the middle of serving lunch to herself\par and Bahbah and I didn't want to press.  Strangely of all Sandeep's girlfriends it's Kendra\par \par I imagine who will tolerate this elegy for Virginia best but I don't know what she herself\par Virginia might have thought though it was clearer after Sandeep and I\par drove up to what I can't remember the town in Connecticut one of the towns past \par \par New Canaan and not coastal but not too far up either on the Merritt it was a small house\par a fake suburban saltbox off what was a real rural road one of those houses cut into fields\par backed up onto forest slapped up by a developer with a redwood deck that dates it to the 60s.\par \par Her father had been a lawyer but they live frugally and the mother I think is a teacher and Veronica the sister is a hard sort and her husband too I imagine Virginia as more joyous in an almost\par spiteful way.  But maybe that's me.  Kendra's rejection hurt in I think it was an attack subconsciously\par \par since she used physical incompatibility in her breakup or rather non-persual email she\par could have said it's not a match and I would have understood but her phrasing contained\par a kind of disgust but it was the same I had seen in her already in other ways and I knew it\par \par wouldn't affect Sandeep even before we lurched forward since the machinery had started\par and even though I was thinking about Lauretta and mentioned her to Kendra more than once\par and did the same with Sandeep.  She was sensitive to it and immediately seized on it all\par \par and when we fought it out I felt that she really did want Sandeep and that confirmed\par my original thought Alissa called her cold and rejecting and but I knew she wouldn't\par be like that with him because it's just a reaction to demands being made on her\par \par that's just not something he does.  He's contained.  He talks a lot and makes up songs\par when he's happy or unhappy.   Husbands and Wives makes a lot more sense now I didn't\par understand that kind of trapped unhappiness when in my 20s or the kind of fear that propels\par \par Judy Davis and Liam Neeson or the ruthlessness that propels Mia Farrow even though\par Woody Allen lets his character off the easiest his loneliness at the end does feel earned real\par the moment where he heads back mistakenly toward the apartment he shared with Mia Farrow. \par \par The disavowal of agency in religious writing (appeal to the father) similar to that in political \par analysis (appeal to systematicity).  The blue scrap in which that had been written sitting\par on the bottom of four shelves built in behind the bed in the cottage, looking out on the construction\par \par in the field next door, of another giant concrete abode.  There will need to be a well,\par and a trench for waste.  I told Sandeep this poem will have a unique structure but I didn't\par tell him what it was: that the narrative would proceed on the right, with through-the-looking-glass\par \par facing page close-up illustrations on the left.  Recto and verso.  Like a children's book.  \par That will appeal to Dr. Prasad.  When we sat in the beer garden in Queens, I think it's Czech\par but it might be Polish, and ate sausage and drank those large-than-pint, I think litres of beer\par \par of possibly weiss beer, we finally argued in full about Israel, and I was surprised by the degree\par of his anger about the situation, which I had seen before in people on the left, a kind of indignation\par that a state founded on the principles on which it had been founded could go so far into\par \par blatant oppression and organized death with disavowals at every turn.  I say it surprised me\par and it also made me angry that I had to walk another person down this garden path which seemed\par so obvious to me.  I use garden path knowingly: the horse raced past the barn fell: that's a garden\par \par path sentence, in the sense that the syntax is obscured by the seeming semantics: you're\par garden-pathed into thinking that the verb is active when in fact it's passive.   And so I began\par my long and tiresome apology.  Sandeep because he is truly patient even though he was very angry\par \par let me speak.  You have to picture the Jews as a minority I said.  I know you're saturated here\par and it's tiresome but you really have to remember that there are only 13 or 14 million Jews in the world\par right now.  They're a minority like any other, a diasporic minority.  And this is the reason for the acrimony\par \par on the left since minorities aren't supposed to act this way, unless they're not in power.  If they're not in power\par they can blow things up at will and it's revolutionary.    I made this argument, part of it, to Lauretta\par at the Imperial Hotel in Delhi on our first date.  A nuclear minority.  Like Pakistan India's twin.\par \par Romulus and Remus suckle the same she-wolf.  So you have to, I'm asking, imagine this minority \par before WWI and WWII which I know is also annoying but because it relates to the imaginary of Israel \par I have to invoke it, so that before WWI, in what was the Ottoman Empire, it was lousy to be Jewish, mostly, \par \par though in Persia and Iraq the situation as I understand it from books like XXX was something \par like that of Germany, a kind of ghettoized assimilation, a separate but equal making possible\par the "identity revision" there as in my family as in Greenwald's.  Bayside, where we might downwardly go.  \par \par Paved over utopia clearview.   Miles sent it under cover of Tom Raworth.  He is perpetually.\par So there's this minority in the Ottoman Empire, and in Europe, and in Russia.  The Russians in 1905\par and 1917 go to the U.S. the then-Mexicans of the New York economy thought dark like them not white.\par \par Anecdote: my mother in high school: forms for minority scholarships handed out: will you be needing one?\par Jews not white until after WWII.  WWII, for the lumpen, a race war.  A religious war.  For the owners,\par pure profit all around, from Die Krups on down to GM.  Etc.  But my point is the Israeli founding imaginary.  \par \par In it, all of the traditional diasporic spaces close down within a period of 15 years, from 1917 to 1933.\par The Balfour Declaration comes in response to Hitler.  The Roosevelt administration is hostle to the mass\par emigration of Jews and does not allow waves as earlier, and the more middle classy German Jews \par \par reluctant to leave anyway.  A non-white minority tortured, staved, beaten, killed.  That is the pre-1945\par situation.  Here is where people turn off.  They turn off for the Armenians, too.  For the Kurds, especially,\par since they've militarized and fought back.  But the fact is that militant zionism takes off only once other\par \par spaces get squeezed and it feels like go do it or your family will be killed.  Everyone has stories.  Relatives.\par A very personal thing.  During the period 1933-1945, one third of the world Jewish population is legally murdered.  \par It leaves little regard for law or the state as run by majorities.  Unclear to me \par \par how this is different from other minority wars for land utilizing colonial methods, as in the way the U.S. \par was formed and built: murder of indigenous people, and slavery.   This point has no effect with Neil, or the left\par but what it points up to me is a double-standard, one that holds Israel and its citizenry more accountable\par \par than the democracies of post-colonial Africa and the dictatorships of the Arab world, both of which are propped up with U.S. money and the U.S. military's defense of the world's oil supply in a manner similar to that of Israel, \par which is number one [two?] on the U.S. aid list (followed by Egypt), an amount, at $2 billion a year [check], \par \par that's dwarfed by the amount spent by the U.S. military maintaining its bases in places like Qatar, \par which is the most liberal Arab dictatorship and sporsor of the excellent Doha Debates on BBC World News, \par but that kind of thing doesn't show up in the kinds of statistics cited by anyone.  I'm not defending Israel\par \par in the sense that I don't think what's happening there is good, and I wouldn't want copies of it proliferating.\par But I don't like the exceptionalism; I don't like the rage that Israel engenders in interlocutors.  That itself\par is the problem: it confuses me that what's happening in Israel makes people more angry than what's happening\par \par in Africa.  And no one has been able to properly explain to me why that is.  The strongest argument I've heard\par is that the amount of U.S. tax money spent there makes it justified, since what happens there is in some sense\par happening in the name of the U.S. citizenry.  That's legit.  But that doesn't, for me, explain the quickness and the level\par \par of rage that is directed at me when I take up a position within the Israeli Political Imaginary; I experience it,\par phenomenologically, the same way I experience Arab-French talk radio anti-Jewish tirades, or little clippings\par in The Teahouse News.  That feeling that Jews get, the grab your suitcase feeling: I get that a lot talking to people\par \par on the far left.  \par \par I will have to fix this so that the dramatic\par urgency of the imaginary is apparent.  It was effectively inculcated in me and it needs to be clear.  It's real.     \par \par The declaratives above won't work.  Take this out.  Remember the ineffectiveness of the Greenwald asides. \par Shostakovich's string quartet no. 7--the one with the repeated "dun-dun-dun" that's supposed to sound, \par \par some say, like the chekha's rapping on the door in the middle of the night--sounds very good here \par in this wooden house in Meghalaya,"Meeg-HA-lay" in Hindi, whose notorious romanized orthography, \par \par with its botched epenthesis, corrupts the Khasi pronunciation and that of other non-Hindi English speakers\par Hindi being the cultural form of the religiously-specific Hindu, and this house seeming a dacha\par \par though in fact in the city limits, this city being something like ____, the Austrian opera city that Mozart\par comes from, what is it, ____.   The light is fading; the bed is made, waiting.  The red light atop the cheap\par speakers subwoofer.  Candy striper.  Did they have one at Sloan Kettering, when Sandeep would drive\par \par Virginia in from Long Valley, or they must have already moved to ______.     \par   \par \par  \par \par }}