{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh9000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Dear David,\
\
Thank you for letting me read Kindness.  \
\
I didn't keep track of my reactions as I was reading.  Here's what's staying with me, reaction-wise.  I think it's publishable as it is.  Just recording the reading of it.\
\
Brings poetry someplace people recognize, but don't normally see.  Like poetry itself.  Even if it doesn't always look like traditional verse.  And also: prose for the prosaic, lyric for the historico-speculative-moving-toward-the-transcendent (in the sense that there's something more than the cubicle, the projects, the shelters, dead relationships, etc.)\
\
The framing is less clear than the characters and plot, which are wonderfully focused and detailed.  That feels like a choice.  I felt the authorial perspective very strongly, but its refusal to identitify or characterize itself fully was intrusive in a peculiar way -- maybe intentionally so.  (I knew already though that Boston was not the author's native place, and where he was before and after that, what turns the career took, etc., and wondered if the narrator would be as clear to others as to me etc.  I understand keeping all that out, though, I think.)  Maybe what I was feeling was a want of explicit saying that all of that will be left out, some thought related to that.   Since these people are so strongly characterized, I kept wanting to know more about the line of observation.  The framing of the glass might be the way to do that.  Already beautifully picked up/mirrored in the ant farm, and then again at the end.  That was amazing.  Like Calumny/A Leaf Poured.\
\
The transitions between prose and lyric and between sections were all seamless and perfectly timed.\
\
The early refrain works differently and I would argue even more effectively after the campaign.  You may want to remove the later reference to the year, but maybe not.\
\
Amazing the moving between levels of the organization, and up into the political machine.  Perfect.  Reminded me of The Invisible Man.\
\
I find the two motivation paragraphs on p. 40 ("It seemed that Richard was unlikely..." & "James was starting to think...") not quite resolved, doesn't quite do the work all the way cleanly.  Maybe it's all the pronouns and names.  I know it's supposed to reflect swirling paranoia, but I still wasn't quite sure after going back over it a couple times.  The tension needs to be very clear there.\
\
Also -- the moment where what he gets something from the apartment (the leaving ambiguous of it) -- felt like I would rather know, know his thoughts about it --- why does he still have it, why did he have it, etc.  It may be perceived as coyness as it is.  Unless I missed something.  But the tension is not located there.  I mean none of it should be located there (in any ambiguity or mystery).  The tension is in the threat to his current life/what he has built (I think?).  And in the regression/spiral it is causing James.  He may not say that, but maybe the author/narrator/poet somehow should.\
\
The box on page 48 - was jarring purely as an unrepeated formal device.   Didn't not understand any meta to that.\
\
"Limited by privilege, feeling intrudes..." on 50 is a kind of framing, but again I felt at that moment that I wanted to know more about where it was we were pulling back to, to what knowledge base.  If it's not defined, is it taken (by the narrator) as an inevitable assumed default?  Again, this kind of free indirect style has looser rules in fiction, I think, but this is appearing under the sign of poetry, the discourse of staging.\
\
The we -- "we see it" on 51 felt like that.  May also tie in to how the colloquy between James and Lucinda is perceived.  \
\
All of that does start to happen as the /I/ comes in as we approach 59.  It's great.\
\
What I am hoping for and wanting in section 6 is an intensification of the tone in the pages leading up to page 59.  I do think the ideational content there is very clear, and that the not-naming is part of it, but I don't feel an explicit connection made between what it being said and what it being left out, if that makes any sense.  Not to speak the thing, nessarily, but to speak of how one is leaving out.\
\
Tell what you're thinking in terms of publication.\
\
Mike\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}