{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf430
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
The 10 songs meme\
\
Have fixated on two distinct periods for this meme: age 5-6 (for one through five), and middle school (for six through ten).  Confined to radio.  Also one bonus.\
\
1. "Cherish"  The Association.  Recall as "the first song I ever heard on the radio."\
\
2.  "Fly Robin, Fly"  Silver Convention.  (Had to look up band.)  An AM staple.  Very literal.  But I didn't understand it.  Something about the women (double-tracked woman?) singing, repeating.\
\
3. "You're So Vain" Carly Simon.  I loved the bass line (though I didn't know what it was), and the way she sang it.  The "Don't you?" refrain.  The orchestral close.  \
\
4. "I Am Woman" Helen Reddy.  Somehow entered the space of my mother.  Some kind of projection.  \
\
5. "Tie a Yellow Ribbon" Tony Orlando and Dawn.  Understood as a kind of fable: you could do this, and the person would come back.  Some world or order that was and was not there.\
\
6. "This Charming Man"  The Smiths.  I heard this on WLIR, in the back of Lisa Barocas's car.  (She was my babysitter/role model.  She's the person who went to Vassar.  She majored in French.  She went to France.  She took drugs at a scale that seemed human.  Tall, thin, pale, beautiful etc.)  The was arresting.  It was everything I'd always wanted a song to sound like.\
\
7. "Pretty Persuasion"  REM.  I think Jenni, Lisa's sister (closer to my age, closer friend, old enough to be the off-limits older sister) was driving when this came on.  It could be a screen memory.  Definitely in the back of their car.  Also WLIR.  This sounded like deep summer, August, the long but fast part at end just before school.  I couldn't believe the harmonies, and the guitars.  The pace.\
\
8.  "New Year's Day" U2.  The video.\
\
9. "Spanish Castle Magic" Jimi Hendrix.  This was the Hendrix song I played over and over.  See now youtube, live in Stockholm.\
\
10. "Limelight" Rush.  Heard on the old WNEW 102.7.  The opening guitar.  The extended chorus.  This song and a love of theory have something to do with one another.   I think this is also in the "I Love You, Bro" movie?\
\
11.  "Smells like Teen Spirit"  Heard for the first time on WBRU, in the parking lot of Bread & Circus in Providence.  In a way, that was the appropriate setting.  But I could not believe that this was that stupid "Grandma Take Me Home" band.  The band I had nixed as the general manager of WVKR from playing at Vassar.  In favor of The Rollins Band.  \
\
----------\
\
The 20 books that influenced you the most meme\
\
1. Peanuts.  I had big 8.5 x 11 paperbacks of the complete strips.  I read them ceaselessly.  It was a space, like poetry. \
\
2. The lyric sheet to Hunky Dory (the Bowie album).  I'll have to scan it.  It's like a chapbook.  And it became this thing, this thing in my life.  My mother had to buy the record from my babysitter, Monica Teixeira, who had brought it over, after I heard "Andy Warhol" and "Life on Mars."\
\
3. A poem my father made up and would recite to me as a child.  My mother knew it, too.  It is not about me.  It was like a book we would take out and look at.\
\
4. A canon of 30s-songbook like verse that my grandfather, Harry Tankoos, had in his head.  Ukulele verse.  Tin Pan Alley verse.  He would sing-recite it at little semantic impasses.  It bugged me, but I also loved it.  I miss it unbearably.  I would come to understand that it has something to do with manners, and cultivation.  It was also like a book.\
\
5. Harry Chapin.  The lyric sheet of the album "On the Road to Kingdom Come."\
\
6.  How the Dead Count, by Judith Johnson Sherwin.  This is the first book of poems I ever bought.  Found it in the poetry section of a used shop, the poetry section I'd ever seen.  Probably in Rhinebeck, New York, where Dick (he and my mother eventually married) was living at the time.  It seemed to maybe be about what I wanted poems to be about.  The typography was right.  But I didn't like it.  I was about 14 or 15.\
\
7. Notes to Myself, by Hugh Prather.  I was given this by a my cousin Gwenne's mother, a woman who threw incredible bohemian Christmas parties that were the highlights of my childhood.   She knew I wanted poetry.  This wasn't it, though, either, as much as I tried to make it be.\
\
8. The Voice that Is Great Within Us.  Edited by Hayden Carruth.  Sophomore year, college.  This was it.  But the print was so small.  And the setting made all the poems seem too much the same.  They seemed yanked.  The bios were the best part, with the dates.\
\
9. Last Lunar Baedeker, by Mina Loy.  Edited by Roger Conover.  Jargon Society edition of 1982.  This is the first collected poems I ever read about, sought through the library, and then held.  Also sophomore year.  The "Love Songs" were really it.  I loved this book.  I still don't own it.  The later FSG edition doesn't come close, even if it's better in places in terms of text.\
\
10. Poems of Emily Dickinson.  That Harvest Franklin edition.  Bought at the college book store.  Astonished at the selection there.  You can just go in and buy these books of poetry.  They were great, and they weren't yellowed mylar and random and not so good, like Dylan Thomas's Under Milk Wood, which was shelved as poetry in the Great Neck library.\
\
11. The Collected Poems of Wallace Stevens.  That Deco paperback of the Knopf.  Also at the college store.\
\
12.  The Wasteland and Other Poems.  That little HBJ paperback.  Also that store.  I had read and loved "The Hollow Men" in high school, and that wasn't in this, which was very, very disappointing.\
\
13.  Seventeenth-Century English Poetry.  Edited by R.C. Bald.  My mother's 1959 college text.  It had been in the den.  She unearthed and handed it to me when the poetry became more apparent around the time I moved to Chelsea.  First book with the original orthography.  One of my most favorite and treasured books.\
\
14. Postmodern American Poetry.  Edited by Paul Hoover.  It's tonal off-ness and seeming apoliticality (as attempted stance) were there.  So was the weird Norton-trying-to-do-this-to-this-thing-you-can't-do-it-to.  And always the too-short selections.  But it was inclusive in a way that American Tree wasn't.  And it was up-front about it's Norton-ness, which Tree also wasn't.  And it was organized the way I liked, with the bios and dates.\
\
15.  Gulf, by Brian Kim Stefans.  This is the first book of poetry I was handed as a gift from the author.  It's also my favorite book of Brian's. \
\
16. Lawn of Excluded Middle, by Rosemarie Waldrop.  This book fused so many things in such an austere language, within a form that looked like and was inquiry. Yet playful. Read it in a seminar with Ann Lauterbach.  In that seminar were Brian Kim Stefans, Alissa Quart, Duncan Dobbelmann, Deirdre Kovac, Dan Machlin, Carla Massey, Maryanne Giordani, and others --- who am I forgetting?\
\
17. Life Studies, by Robert Lowell.  Also read in that seminar.  It was as much more about class than a lot of the very abstract things we had been reading.  I liked that, even if what it says is "wrong." \
\
18. Way, by Leslie Scalapino.  Also in the seminar.  Could not believe the precision, the way in which the repetitions "change" because the moment has changed.  Its descriptiveness and perspectivalism were so integral to its form.  I loved it.  Complete.  I don't remember if I had read Tender Buttons yet or not.  Even so it seemed or later seemed way more precise.\
\
19.  Paul Celan, in the Persea Books edition of the Michael Hamburger translations.  Also the seminar.  Among all the other things about this that made an impression on me, it seemed "better" than American poetry in some fundamental way, a way I would want to reject.\
\
20. "Self Portrait in a Convex Mirror."  Just the poem.  Also the seminar.  This was not the Ashbery I knew, which was the Ashbery of Some Trees.  This was also "better" in some way I would think of rejecting. \
\
-}