{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh9000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Miles is mean-spirited.  Maybe this time\
I'll be able to be "honest with myself"\
all the way through.\
\
K-properties.  Held in suspension.\
"Too much like a game; you should\
at least have had a script."\
\
How will I weed out all of the junk\
if I just type it in serially.  Trype,\
cereal, jinks.  You owe\
\
Me a coke.  Miles to go.  Govinda.\
A certain drummer.  A secret code.\
Follow the path.\
\
No one wants to learn a difficult\
game that can't be shared and isn't\
--- no one.\
\
It's a start.\
\
-----\
\
No one knows what gravity is.  Action\
at a distance.  Like remote viewing, just,\
\
which the government funds.  Maybe\
heroic couplets can be conceived.\
\
---\
\
Ah che.  No one knows what desire is.\
The attraction necessary to bring bodies together.\
\
Otherwise, why would?  \
\
---\
\
Boring unless materialist link\
Link to materialism in that 'other' sense\
\
Nothing sharp about this.\
Wandering error.  Just because you can.\
\
It's a sad drug fact.  Would never be tolerated\
except in a era of excess.  My unimaginable\
\
luxuries.  Luixeurs.\
\
---\
\
Reference.  \
       Relation\
\
of w  to \
la\
\
---\
\
Is it worth it to fly lemons around?\
\
Sheep in Fog\
Fish in Coolers\
\
---\
}